Blog post for Dev mode with multi module Maven projects (#1628)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2021-08-25-dev-mode-multi-module.adoc

---
layout: post

> title: "Dev mode support for multi-module Maven projects"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Fast iterative development of multi-module Maven projects with dev mode"
```

# Do NOT change the categories section
categories: blog
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/ericglau
author_github: https://github.com/ericglau

> seo-title: Dev mode support for multi-module Maven projects - OpenLiberty.io

Reviewer: ```suggestion
seo-title: Fast iterative development of multi-module Maven projects with dev mode - OpenLiberty.io
```

> seo-description: Dev mode support for Maven projects with multiple modules, featuring hot deployment of changes in all modules in a Maven reactor build.  Iterate quickly when developing multi-module applications with Open Liberty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
seo-description: Dev mode support for Maven projects with multiple modules, featuring hot deployment of changes in all modules in a Maven reactor build for fast inner loop.  Iterate quickly when developing multi-module Java applications with Open Liberty.
```

> blog_description: "Dev mode support for Maven projects with multiple modules, featuring hot deployment of changes in all modules in a Maven reactor build.  Iterate quickly when developing multi-module applications with Open Liberty."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
blog_description: "Dev mode support for Maven projects with multiple modules, featuring hot deployment of changes in all modules in a Maven reactor build.  Iterate quickly when developing multi-module Java applications with Open Liberty."
```

open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
additional_authors: 
- name: Kathryn Kodama
  github: https://github.com/kathrynkodama
  image: https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/kathrynkodama
---

> = Dev mode support for multi-module Maven projects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Fast iterative development of multi-module Maven projects with dev mode
```

Eric Lau <https://github.com/ericglau>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

> You can organize a cloud native Java application that is built with Maven by separating it into multiple subprojects, or modules. A multi-module project consists of multiple modules that can have dependencies on each other and an aggregator project that describes how the modules are built together. The Maven reactor then collects, sorts, and builds the modules in the correct order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can organize a cloud-native Java application that is built with Maven by separating it into multiple subprojects, or modules. A multi-module project consists of multiple modules that can have dependencies on each other and an aggregator project that describes how the modules are built together. The Maven reactor then collects, sorts, and builds the modules in the correct order.
```

In this blog post, we introduce support for working with multi-module Maven projects in Open Liberty dev mode. Dev mode for multi-module projects provides hot deployment of changes in all modules of a Maven reactor build, on-demand and hot testing for multiple modules, and the ability to attach a debugger to debug code in any module.  

> Dev mode support for multi-module Maven projects is available starting in version `3.4` of the link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.maven[Liberty Maven plug-in], which is available now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dev mode support for multi-module Maven projects is available starting in version `3.4` of the link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.maven[Liberty Maven plug-in], which you can use now.
```

----
mvn liberty:dev
----

Once dev mode starts successfully, changes in all modules are detected and hot deployed. By default, any dependent modules are also recompiled and deployed. For example, if you make a change in the `jar` module of the previously described sample application, the `war` module is also recompiled because it depends on the `jar` module. 

[.img_border_light]
image::img/blog/liberty-multimodule-java-change.gif[Changing a Java file while dev mode is running on a multi-module project,align="center"]

=== Starting dev mode with container support

Dev mode with container support is available for multi-module projects. Use the `devc` goal to start dev mode with container support:

----
mvn liberty:devc  
----

If your Dockerfile is not in the same directory as where you started the dev mode command from, you can point to it with the `-Ddockerfile=<path-to-dockerfile>` command parameter. For more information on Dockerfiles for your Open Liberty application, see the link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.docker#building-an-application-image[Open Liberty Docker image documentation]. 

=== Running tests

> You can run tests on all modules by pressing Enter. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run tests on all modules by pressing Enter for immediate feedback on your code changes.
```
